we start with the war between Israel and
Hamas as International pressure mounts
for Action to address the prospect of
imminent famin among Palestinians in
Gaza we're following a number of
developments the US is said to have
authorized the transfer of billions of
dollars worth of bombs and fighter jets
to Israel in recent days the package
reported by The Washington Post and
Reuters comes despite growing calls for
US military aid to be linked to changes
in how Israel conducts the war it's just
just days after the un's top Court the
international court of justice ordered
Israel to allow the unimpeded flow of
food Aid into Gaza Israel says un
allegations that it's blocking Aid are
wholly unfounded the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has agreed
to send officials to Egypt and Qatar in
the coming days for a new round of talks
on a possible ceasefire in Gaza in the
past 24 hours both the UK and the US
Military have aird dropped Food Supplies
into Gaza our BBC Middle East
correspondent Lucy Williamson was on the
US
plane Aid drops into Gaza are expensive
inefficient and increasingly
controversial these ready prepared meals
from the US Army are being flown more
than a thousand miles from a US Airbase
inq there's plenty of food just a short
drive from gaza's borders but this
American Aid is being flown right across
the Middle
East 80 crates of food on board two c17
transport planes dropped into a
population the UN says is on the brink
of famine it's not perfect we know that
there's upwards of 2 million people who
need food on the ground who are hungry
innocent civilians who didn't ask for
this conflict and we're dropping meals
in the tens of thousands but at least
it's something so does it feel like a
drop in the bucket maybe a little bit
but if you're a family on the ground who
got some of this Aid it can be a
lifesaver
12 people were reported to have drowned
this week trying to retrieve packages
from the sea six others crushed in a
stampede what are you doing to try and
mitigate those risks literally
everything we can so I know you spoke
with the colonel earlier we use a shoot
that falls at a slower rate to give the
gozin more time to see the parachutes
and make sure that they're out of the
way we also have assets overhead that
clear the drop zone so we will not drop
if there's any sort of grouping of
people there after 3 hours in the air
the ramp opens on gaza's devastated
Coastline they just open the Hat ready
to release the aid down into Gaza
there's no organized distribution system
down there very it
goes a drop of Aid in an ocean of hunger
getting Aid in this way is a last resort
but a growing number of countries are
doing it how much do these I catching
flights relieve pressure on gaza's
civilians and how much the pressure on
governments elsewhere Lucy Williamson
BBC News Kata well our correspondent
yourand now is in Jerusalem and she told
me more about the US weapons transfer to
Israel so according to these uh reports
in the Washington Post and voits as well
they're quoting unnamed US state and
defense Department officials and they're
saying that more than
1,800 2,000 pound bombs uh some 500500
pound bombs and 25 F-35 fighter jets
have been uh authorized uh in this
latest uh uh set of uh military uh Aid
assistance coming across uh to Israel
now a lot of this has already um been
initially approved uh by Congress but
the reason this is uh so interesting in
terms of the timing uh just after a
visit by the Israeli defense minister
yev Galant to Washington is that really
in recent days we have seen um tensions
deepening between uh Israel and the US
um and you that really uh reached the
the lowest moment on Monday after you
had the us exstension at the UN Security
Council uh when it came to a resolution
being passed on a ceasefire in the Gaza
War for the first time Israel was very
angered about that and there have been
these calls um from senior Democrats in
the US and from other groups of society
like Arab Americans uh suggesting that
if um military weapon supplies transfers
to Israel were not going to be cut then
they should be limited or they should be
conditioned uh by the Biden
Administration uh that doesn't seem to
have happened yeah I mean it's really
interesting isn't it we've spoken over
the last couple of weeks about the
relations uh being strained and just as
you say there widespread calls for this
um the the two to be linked that um that
that military aid should be linked to
the um humanitarian Aid to Gaza but that
doesn't seem to be the
case indeed and the the White House has
been saying that it supports Israel's
continued right to defend itself we know
that the Israeli defense minister in the
US had been uh talking to Washington
about um its declared um aim to keep uh
Israel with a what's called a
qualitative military Edge uh in this
region um and also talking about not
just Waging War in Gaza but the prospect
of a possible escalation on Israel's
northern border where there have been um
in recent months these near daily cross
border exchanges of fire with the
powerful Lebanese armed group Hezbollah
that was your land now reporting from
Jerusalem